# diwali_sales_analysis
Welcome to the diwali_sales_analysis project! This project aims to analyze the sales data from a huge sales database during the Diwali season using Python, pandas, NumPy, seaborn, and matplotlib libraries.

## Introduction
The Diwali Sales Analysis project is focused on extracting insights from a massive sales database to gain a deeper understanding of sales trends, customer behavior, and overall performance during the Diwali season. The project utilizes popular Python libraries such as pandas, NumPy, seaborn, and matplotlib to perform data manipulation, visualization, and analysis.

## Installation
To run the Diwali Sales Analysis project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:
   
   ```git clone (file name)```

2. Open the project in your preferred Python IDE or editor.
3. Install the required Python packages using pip:

   ```!pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn```
5. Sit back and let the code analyse your diwali sales database

## Usage
Once you have installed the necessary dependencies, you can use the project to perform Diwali sales analysis by following these steps:

1. Ensure that you have the Diwali sales data in a compatible format. The project expects a CSV file named Diwali Sales Data.csv placed in the data directory. Adjust the file name and location as necessary.

2. Open the project in your preferred Python environment.

3. Run the diwali_sales_analysis.ipynb Notebook.

4. Follow the instructions and code snippets provided in the notebook/script to load and analyze the Diwali sales data.

5. Explore the visualizations and insights generated by the project.
 
## Data
The sales data used in this project is stored in the "Diwali Sales Data.csv" file. It contains information such as the product ID, customer ID, amount, age group, and other relevant attributes for each transaction. The dataset is in CSV format, making it easily accessible and compatible with Pandas for data analysis.

## Results
The Diwali Sales Analysis project aims to provide meaningful insights into the sales data during the Diwali season. The results may include but are not limited to:

1. Which gender is purchasing more on diwali.
2. Age Range of most frequent buyers.
3. Region of most numbers of buyers. 
4. Marital status of large number of buyers.
5. Occupation of buyers.
6. Product Category
   
The project generates visualizations and reports to make it easier to understand and interpret the results.

## Contributing
Contributions to the project are welcome! If you have any suggestions, bug reports, or feature requests, please open an issue on the project's GitHub repository. If you would like to contribute code, feel free to open a pull request after forking the repository.
